\section{Related Work}
\label{sec:relatedWork}

%\note{\todo{Contrast staged program repair (concurrent work) by Rinard -- md}}

Automated program repairing has been an active area over past decade. The
approaches that have been proposed by the researchers broadly fall into two
categories namely, static and dynamic.

\subsection{Static Approaches}

\myparagraph{Counter-example Driven} Some of the static approaches work based on
a counter-example or a violated invariant that is reported from the field. These
approaches then repair the program by automatically developing a patch and then
ensuring its correctness using computationally intensive techniques such as
model-checking~\cite{biere2014, wei-issta-2010}. Static techniques are effective
in producing accurate patches. However, shutting down the system to produce and
apply patches is not always a feasible or a desirable option. The motivation for
our technique comes from the fact that for some applications fixing the bug
after a program crash is not an option.

\myparagraph{String Generation} A key to effective program repairing is to
reduce the problem by targeting a specific domain, or specific data structures
such as arrays, or data types such as strings, and then use specialized
transformation and solving techniques for repairing that can exploit the
constrained environment. Gulwani~\cite{Gulwani:2011} considered Microsoft Excel
programs as the use case scenario and identified string transformation as the
major class of programming problem. The author designed an algorithm for
learning a string expression that is consistent with input-output examples. An
input-output example is generated from a mapping that maps a set of strings to
a string defining a operation such as concatenation. Singh and
Gulwani~\cite{Singh:2012} deal with semantic transformation of a string that
need to be interpreted as more than a sequence of characters. Their approach may
complement our approach by improving our string generation process.

Samimi et al. present a tool \textit{PHPQuickFix} based on the static analysis
approach and that targets a special case of printing related bug in
HTML~\cite{SamirniSAMTH12}. Compared to their technique our approach addresses
much wider range of problems related to Java strings and can be extended to
other systems that have support for exceptions. Tatlock et al. focus on the
\java\ database API and related query string~\cite{Tatlock:2008}. They propose a
solution of type errors that is caused due to a type mismatch in the database
and the type assigned in the program. The authors also propose a solution for
refactoring where changing a class name associated with some queries will
reflect all the strings system wide. This approach is based on type-checking and
addresses different class of repairing problems.

\myparagraph{Static Data Repair} Demsky et al. propose repair strategy by
goal-directed reasoning~\cite{conf/icse/DemskyR05}. This involves translating
the data-structure to an abstract model by a set of model definition rules. The
actual repair involves model reconstruction and statically mapping it to a data
structure update. Elkarablieh et al. propose an idea to statically analyze a
data structure to access the information like recurrent fields and local
fields~\cite{conf/oopsla/2007}. They use their technique to some well known data
structures like singly linked list, sorted list, doubly linked list, N-ary tree,
AVL tree, binary search tree, disjoint set, red-black tree, and Fibonacci heap.
Overall, these approaches are complementary to our approach. 

\subsection{Dynamic Approaches}

Static approaches cannot exactly predict when the failure can happen. However,
dynamic approaches have a complete visibility to the program under execution and
can have a precise knowledge of its state. In order to overcome some limitations
of static approaches and exploit the execution knowledge, several promising
dynamic approaches have been proposed.

\myparagraph{Dynamic Data Repair} Demsky and Rinard present techniques that
mostly concentrate on specific data-structures like \emph{FAT-32}, \emph{ext2},
\emph{CTAS} (a set of air-traffic control tools developed at the NASA Ames
research center) and repairing them~\cite{Demsky03automaticdata,
conf/issre/DemskyR03,conf/oopsla/DemskyR03, conf/issta/DemskyEGMPR06}. The
authors present a specification language using that they detect and check
consistency properties in these data-structures and repair them. For a
violation, they replace the error condition with correct proposition. These
approaches develop either suboptimal patches or isolate the data structure that
is damaged that allows at least part of the system to be functional. In
contrast, our approach tries to provide support to the entire application in the
context of string-related failures by trying to keep the system behavior as
close as possible to the intended. The advantage of these approaches is that
they are light-weight and like our approach, can fix a system on-the-fly
potentially allowing some sub-optimal behavior for a finite time until the
systems self-stabilizes.

Long et al.~\cite{conf/pldi/LongSR14} present a technique that repairs a
crashing system \emph{RCV} on-the-fly. The technique deals with two types of
system violations, namely, divide-by-zero and null-deference errors. Their tool
replaces \emph{SIGFPE} and \emph{SIGSEGV} signal handler with its own handler.
The approach works by assigning zero at the time of divide-by-zero error, read
zero and ignores write at the time of null-deference error. Their implementation
is on $x86$ and $x86-64$ binaries. They also implement a dynamic taint analysis
to see the effect of their patching until the program stabilizes that they
called as \emph{error shepherding}. However, unlike our approach, this technique
requires a special runtime support that is built into the operating system.

\myparagraph{Genetic Programming} The researchers have also tried genetic
programming approach for repairing. Goues et al. use genetic programming
technique that is a stochastic search method inspired by biological
evolution~\cite{GouesNFW12}. The technique generates program patch by using
already existing test cases to deal with bugs such as infinite loop, null
string, segmentation fault, and buffer overflow. Similar approach has been
presented by Weimer et al.~\cite{WeimerFGN10}. Goues et al. present study to
understand the real life feasibility and the fraction of the bugs their genetic
programming-based tool can repair as well as the cost associated with it
\cite{GouesDFW12}. These approaches are test-driven and rely on the availability
and completeness of test-suites. In contrast, our approach is completely
independent of a test-suite.

\myparagraph{Strings Related} Samimi et al. present a dynamic repairing
technique for PHP applications~\cite{SamirniSAMTH12}. They present a tool
\textit{PHPRepair} to repair auto-generated malformed HTML codes from the PHP
scrips. Often the HTML codes do not have proper tags that are silently
corrected by the browser but the result is different across browsers. The
authors employ an efficient SAT solver using cost optimization to find an
efficient repair.

\myparagraph{Other Dynamic Approaches} Perkins et al. present a system named
\emph{Clear view} that works on windows x86 binaries without requiring any
source code~\cite{conf/sosp/PerkinsKLABCPSSSWZER09}. They use invariants
analysis for that they use Daikon~\cite{DBLP:journals/scp/ErnstPGMPTX07}. They
mostly patched security vulnerabilities by some candidate repair patches. Unlike
our approach, their approach requires a test-suite to develop the knowledge
about the invariants.

\subsection{Main Contrasting Features of Our Approach}

Our approach targets only string objects for repairing allowing it generate
highly precise and intelligent program patches that generate very few or none
cascading exceptional events and produces a program behavior that is very close
to the expected behavior under the event of crashing. In addition, our approach
is hybrid with a heavy static component that enables all the analysis including
the side-effect analysis based on a taint analysis to perform dynamically. It
incurs negligible overhead even in the event of crashing. Moreover, \tool\ works
at the application level, and hence is easily portable. Many of these proposed
repairing approaches have been found to be effective on various problems that
are scoped appropriately. We believe that ours is the first generic approach
that targets string objects and repairs program on-the-fly by generating precise
patches using the properties of string objects and leveraging contextual
information.